# Digital Signage for informational messages

## Introduction
This Digital Signage facility is one that displays a slide presentation on one or more screens in a facility. The presentation can be created using various methods and is managed using emails. It is designed to be simple to set-up, maintain and to create presentations for.
It is intended to be used in Churches and other establishments where a simple informative 
display is all that is needed.

## Project goals
  * Keep the overall cost to an absolute minimum by utilising low cost equipment, free software, free email services, etc.
  * Keep maintaining and updating the system and the presentations as simple as possible.
  * Use internet and email service to deliver and manage presentations and/or updates to the system.
  * System Administrator to receive a daily status message with any errors encountered by the system. This allows problems to be resolved easily.
  * Provide a level of security whereby only authorised email addresses can send instructions to the system.
 
## Implementation
This project was developed to run on a Raspberry Pi single board computer using existing video facilities. The Raspberry Pi is a small device so can be easily located anywhere to provide the Digital Signage facility.

This project consists of a set of BASH shell scripts, Python programs, data files and configuration
files to provide the Digital Signage facility. It is designed to run in a Linux environment.

The system files and the documentation are supplied in two TAR files.

TAR file with the documentation is called:  `documentation.tar`

TAR file with the system files is called:  `project_files.tar`

## Start the project
To start implementing this project, first download the two TAR files to a computer that is running Linux. 
Extract the contents of the two files as follows:

> tar -xvf  documentation.tar  *folder_for_documents*

> tar -xvf  project_files.tar  *folder_for_files*

Read the System Documentation and the User Manual to understand what this project is about, how it works and how to install it on a target device.

## Installation
To install the system, please read the "System Documentation" that is in the documentation TAR file.
Follow the instructions in Appendix D. It is not a simple one command installation but it
is not very difficult for anyone with Linux experience.
The system requires a number of Python modules and Linux utilities to be installed. All this
is described in the document.

There is documentation for the Python programs, Shell scripts (man pages) and for the other configuration and common function files. It is all contained in the PDF document.

## User instructions
The user instructions are in the "User Manual" that is in the documentation TAR file.

There are two roles defined for this project. The first is the presentation creator role.
This role creates and manages the actual presentation that is the purpose of this project.

The second role is for the System Administrator. This is a more technical role and ideally
performed by those that implemented this project. It is kept as simple as possible with
minimal direct interaction with the target device.




